origin-of-sadness/origin-of-sadness.md, before:

# The Origin of Sadness

"Papa," Holly asked, "why am I sad?"

Jonah's hands went on scrubbing the pan for a moment. Outside the kitchen window, a bluebird hopped from one branch to the other of the mulberry bush he had planted, just a week before Holly was born. From the duet on the radio, the guitar picked out a shaky complaint. The bluebird seemed to turn its head in thoughtful consideration, and then flew off.

"Why, Poppet - is it because of Mama?"

Holly did not looking up from her coloring. Before her, a line drawing of a bunny lay on the kitchen table, a pile of crayons strewn in every direction. Her right hand pinched the tip of a brown crayon, earnestly pressing into the paper so that she could finish coloring the bunny's ear.

"I know Mama isn't here. I've knew that yesterday, and I knew that this morning, and I'll know that tonight. But why am I sad just this moment, Papa? I wasn't sad before."

"Before what?" He had resumed working on the pan, to occupy his hands. Something had burnt in place on the bottom, and wouldn't scrape off even though it had sat soaking throughout lunch.

Holly set down the crayon and carefully considered her drawing. She blew softly on the paper, scattering the crayon shavings, before picking up the forest green to finish the tufts of grass at the bunny's feet. "Before you turned on the radio, I suppose. Why should that make me sad?"

Jonah gave the pan a final rinse, studied his reflection in the silverish metal, as though the answer to his daughter's question might reside there.

"Are you saying that the song made you sad, is that it?" Jonah plucked Holly's plate from off the table, taking care not to drop the fork on her drawing.

Holly regarded him for a moment, then exhaled a little puff of air. "Of course, that is exactly what I'm saying."

"Why then, it's a sad song. And it reminds you that Mama is gone. And that makes you sad." He gave the plate a swipe, set it in the dishwasher, and turned towards her, leaning on the countertap and wiping his hands with a towel. Even before he finished saying it, Jonah knew that this answer would not satisfy her.

"Papa, what a perfectly silly thing to say." Holly brushed her hand against the paper, in the process rubbing the few remaining bits of waxy crayon into smudges on the drawing, and then fixed her drawing to the refrigerator. "It's a sad song, of course it makes me sad. But why is it a sad song? It's just some instruments on the radio, a few sounds. How does that have anything to do with Mama? No one on the radio knows that she's gone, or even who she is. Why should that make me sad?"

***

The ground was still a little damp from rain earlier in the week; the planting project would go very quickly. Jonah dug another hole, prepared a little bed of soil.

"I'm ready for another seed, Poppet."

Holly dug around in the little foil pouch, brightly painted with a pair of carrots, carefully pinched a tiny seed between thumb and forefinger, and dropped them into her father's waiting hand.

"Have you figured it out yet, Papa?"

He turned the question over in his head as he placed the seed into the little depression in the soil, heaped a little bit more dirt onto the top, and patted the completed mound flat. Finally he remembered the question she had asked just after lunch.

"Have I figured out why that song made you sad? No, I'm afraid I haven't."

"Well - maybe we should turn it into a story. Like Mama says."

That was Sylvia's favorite game with Holly, to make up silly stories all day long, whether it was about someone feeding ducks at the park or the nice man at the post office.

"Well then, I'll do my best." Jonah set his spade down on the ground, and sat back on his haunches. How did every good story begin? "Once upon a time, there was a good, wise king, who ruled over a vast kingdom..."

"Oh, Papa, you're telling it wrong!" Holly stretched her feet upwards, standing on her toes for a moment, and it was only then that Jonah realized she had worn her new shoes for the afternoon's chores.

Holly took a breath and then sat down on the ground. "The story starts like this: 'Once upon a time, there was a little girl named... Penny. Penny loved to sing, all day and all night. She sang at the playground, she sang in the bath, she even sang at school! She sang while she was doing her homework, or playing with her friends, she sang while she was riding her bike.'"

"Sounds like Penny must have had a real talent." Jonah stole a surreptitious glance at her sneakers, wondering how difficult it would be to wipe off the smudge of dirt on the side of the left shoe. Miraculously, that seemed to be the only stain on the new pair, so far.

"Oh yes. Penny was the best singer in her whole school, in the whole town even."

"Well, that is a lovely story. Did Penny invent the very first sad song, is that it?" Jonah gathered all the little rocks they had unearthed from the garden into a little pile, and left it by the side of the garden.

"Well, there's more to the story, of course. We haven't even reached the middle yet!" Holly's arms extended behind her, fists pressing into the ground for support. She had crushed the packet of seeds into a ball.

"Very well, then, Poppet. Let's pick up the gardening things, and continue the story after we put them away. Ok?"

***

At the edge of the yard stood a line of oak trees, stout old things that had been there since they had bought the house, and probably many years before that. Any day now, the leaves would turn a lazy shade of yellow. But already a few strays were starting to flutter off the branches, one or two or three at a time.

Raking in the shade felt good after sweating under the pounding sun in the garden. Even at this stage, before the leaves had started to fall in earnest, there were already plenty on the ground. Jonah gathered them together into a pile while Holly grabbed fists full of leaves, twigs and acorns, and stuffed them into a large brown paper bag. Jonah had forgotten to remind her to change into a shabbier pair of shoes for the yard work, and so the new ones were soon marked up with little grass stains. While she worked she hummed a little.

"Are you singing one of Penny's songs, Poppet?"

Penny buried her hands in the vast pile of leaves, crunching them through her fingers. "I suppose so, Papa. I think this was one of her songs. Only she must have known the words."

"You mean the lyrics? I didn't even realize that there were any. I thought it was just a simple tune." Jonah paused for a minute and leaned against the rake, dabbing at his forehead with the back of his hat.

Holly dropped the leaves she had gathered into the bag, wiping her hands against her jeans and frowning. "Well, maybe you and I don't know the words, but I'm sure that Penny would have. She knew the words to every song."

"Wow. That's a lot of songs!"

"Many, many songs. More than you could count, Papa. She knew all the words because she had a song for every possible thing she wanted to do: one for reading a book, another for eating dinner, a third one for playing with her dog, and so on. So, she must have known lots and lots of songs."

"When you explain it like that, it makes perfect sense. So was this her song for picking up leaves?"

Holly picked up a single dried leaf, twirled it by the stem. "Hmm. Yes, it must have been! But now I wonder why it is that we no longer know the words."

"Maybe Penny forgot them." Jonah had gone back to raking, pulling together one last pile from the leaves on the far side of the yard.

Holly wandered up to one of the oaks at the side of the yard, touched her fingertips to its cobbled bark. She looked down to the roots, and then up to the highest branches.

"I think there was another song that she forgot, first. You see, one day while Penny was climbing a tree, she found that she couldn't remember the words to the song she was singing."

"Oh dear. Couldn't she just choose another one?"

"What a strange idea. How would Penny be able to climb a tree while singing a song that was meant for something else, like chopping vegetables?"

"I hadn't really thought of that, I suppose." Jonah went back to raking, and Holly picked up another little pile of leaves to drop in the bag. "Well then: how did Penny get out of the tree? Was she able to continue climbing, if she couldn't remember the words to the song?"

Holly rubbed her nose with the back of her hand a little, and began collecting leaves from the last little pile. "She couldn't, of course. Penny didn't know how to climb without singing. And she couldn't sing the song if she didn't know the words. Fortunately she hadn't climbed very far, so she simply jumped out of the tree."

"Well, I'm glad she got out of the tree."

"Yes, but Papa - Penny still wanted to climb trees! She just couldn't remember the words. She asked her friends, and her teachers, and her parents, she even asked the dog. But no one could help her."

"So then, what did she do?"

"Well, there was a great and powerful sorceress, who lived in the middle of a vast forest. Penny decided that she should visit the sorceress, to see whether the sorceress had a potion which could help her memory."

"That must have been very brave of Penny."

"Well, yes. But she had her song for walking through the woods. And as she hiked through the forest, Penny sang and sang, which made the journey go quickly. She even stopped every now and then to leave some breadcrumbs on the trail, so that she'd know how to get back home."

"What a good idea. She sounds like quite a clever little girl."

Holly shrugged. She had just about finished putting the last few leaves into the paper bag, and at the bottom of the pile she had found an acorn, a perfectly formed little nut, and had decided to try to prise off the cap with her fingernail.

Jonah waited another moment, but his daughter appeared lost in thought.

"Poppet?"

"Yes, Papa?"

"What happened when Penny found the sorceress?"

"Oh, yes. Of course."

***

By the time Penny found the sorceress's house, it was alrighty quite cold and dark. The owls had started hooting and the frogs had started croaking. Creatures snuffled underfoot, in and out of the bushes. Penny was relieved to find the sorceress's house cheerfully awake, a fire still blazing through the window.

As cold and as dark as it was, Penny wasted no time in asking the sorceress for help with her song. But the sorceress replied:

"Ah no, my dear, it is too late tonight - rest up, and we will see about that tomorrow."

Penny slept soundly that night, weary from her long journey. When she awoke the house smelled of something sweet and spicy, light but a little bit tart. In the kitchen, the sorceress had just pulled a loaf of gingerbread out of the oven.

"Marvelous, you've awoken just in time. Now let us see about your song." And with that she offered Penny a slice of the gingerbread. It was fluffy and filling at once, and the warm blend of spices was fragrant and familiar. Penny closed her eyes as she chewed, detecting, as she did so, the slightest note of something peppery.

It was just as she opened her eyes, and was about to ask about the song, that she saw the old sorceress hang her head. Wiping her hands on her apron, the woman turned away to tidy the kitchen. And Penny understood, somehow, that she had failed in some vital but unspecified task.

The next day was the same, and the next after that, and so on for quite some time: Penny awoke each morning to the smell of gingerbread, ate a slice, but could not remember the words to her song. The peppery note in the sorceress's gingerbread never went away - some days it was stronger, and some days weaker, but always it was there, hiding in the center of the slice.

And so it went, until one day Penny awoke earlier than usual, and there was no gingerbread smell in the house. In the kitchen, the girl found the old sorceress preparing the morning's bread. "Aunty," she pleaded, for the two were now good friends, "may I help with the baking?"

The sorceress looked up from her work, as though she had been expecting Penny all morning. "But of course my dear - you may blend the spices." And she nodded her head toward the jars of spices huddled in one corner of the counter. A dove had settled on the ledge of the kitchen window, overseeing the operation from its perch. Carefully Penny measured out the cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, and cardamom, until she found only one jar left. It was a curious little jar, made of black glass, marked with nothing but a piece of tape. The dove tilted its head in curiosity. Penny understood that she must add the contents of that jar - but what was inside? She dared not taste it, though she did not know why.

When she was done, the gingerbread tasted especially peppery - but there was another taste, beneath the pepper one, that Penny could not quite describe. It was something earthy, and rough - it reminded Penny of the bark of a tree. "Yes, my pet, a wonderful job with the spices today," the sorceress replied, as they tidied the kitchen that day. "It won't be long now."

From that day on Penny continued to blend the spices, and each day the earthy taste in the gingerbread grew stronger, more present, more alive. In all this time, Penny still had not remembered the words to her song, and the sorceress had given her no hints, or tricks, or spells, or potions, to remember. Instead, the sorceress repeated the same thing, day after day: "It won't be long now."

One day, when Penny awoke, the sorceress was gone.

***

They had finished rolling out the dough and Holly still had not mentioned the ending to her story. Jonah had done his best to be patient, letting her think about it while they mashed up the berries, and waited for them to boil, and added sugar and syrup so that it would thicken.

With the table still covered in flour, he finally gave in to his curiosity. "And so, Poppet? What happened when Penny finally found the sorceress? Did she get her magic potion?"

"Oh, no, Papa," Holly responded, chewing her lip as she carefully pushed the rolling pin over the dough one more time. "The sorceress didn't have a potion for Penny. In fact she didn't have any potions at all!"

"What sort of sorceress doesn't have a magic potion?"

"Well, this sorceress must have been too busy helping little girls with their problems to bother brewing up potions."

"I see." Jonah picked up the dough that Holly had rolled out, and carefully set it in the pie tin. He grabbed two spoons, handing one to Holly, and they both began spooning the sticky mulberry jam into the pie. "So then - what did Penny do? Was the sorceress able to help her at all?"

"Well, the sorceress told Holly that there was an enchanted pond at the edge of the forest. She told Penny that she would be able to remember the words, if she went to the pond. So, Penny went to the pond, and she sat down at the edge. At first the waters were very muddy, but after a few minutes they cleared up. And in the water of the pond she could see herself climbing a tree!"

"How marvelous!" Jonah felt the door of the oven, to check that it was warm enough for the pie. "So once she saw herself in the water - Penny was able to remember the lyrics, after all?" He carefully set the pie in the oven, and removed his oven mitts.

"Yes. Penny saw herself climbing and remembered the lyrics, just as they had been before. But then the waters grew cloudy again. And she found that while she still knew the words to the song, she couldn't remember how to climb a tree."

Jonah sighed, grabbed a chair from the table, and sat down heavily. He looked down at the linoleum floo, the checkerboard black-and-white pattern fading from years of stains and scuff marks. A single crushed mulberry hung on to the toe of Holly's right shoe, amidst a dusting of white specs of flour. The lights in the heel didn't blink. "Maybe she could go back to the sorceress, and ask her for some help?"

Holly licked at a bit of jam on her thumb. "She tried that, of course. But she couldn't find the way any more. She would go in to the forest, certain she remembered, and just wind up walking in circles. One time she thought maybe she had found the right path - but there was no trace of the sorceress's house, when she got to the clearing. She never found it again, and she never climbed another tree."

***

The pie was nearly done. Jonah still sat at the kitchen table, staring out the window. Beside him, Holly clutched a glass of milk, swinging her feet back and forth.

"It's a sad thing when you know the song, but you can't do the thing the song is telling you to do. Isn't it, Poppet?"

"Very, very sad, Papa."

"Even though Penny never climbed another tree - do you suppose she did other things?"

Penny placed her chin in her hand, studying the afternoon sun reflected on the table top as though it might help her explain something very simple. "Papa, Penny did many, many other things. She knew all of those songs, remember? And she must have learned more, as she grew older."

Jonah smiled thinly, wrapped his knuckles on the table once. "Did I ever tell you about the first dance at our wedding?"

Holly shook her head mid-sip, dribbling a bit of milk down her chin.

"It was a beautiful old French love song, with trumpets and violins and probably some cymbals. It went a little like this: ba-dum, ba-dum, ya da da-da..." Jonah wiggled his fingers a bit in the air, his hands flying about like butterflies.

"Was Mama a good dancer?"

"Oh you wouldn't believe it, she was the best dancer. Mama could dance any song she chose. Even if she'd never heard it before, she'd start by tapping her feet and nodding her head. Before you knew it she had taken over the dance floor."

"And you never danced again, after the wedding?" Holly's eyes were wide, the glass of milk held steady by her hands in her lap.

"Well, yes we did, but it was never the same, was it? After all, how many weddings did Mama and I have?" Jonah tapped an index finger on his upper lip, as though in serious thought.

"Only one, silly!" Holly giggled and commenced kicking her feet under the table.

"Ah that's right, we only had one wedding. And only one first dance at the wedding. But after that we had something even better than a wedding, didn't we?"

The oven timer went off, an insistent beep. "Dessert?" Holly asked.

Jonah caught a swinging foot under the table, and gave a little squeeze. "Something much, much better than that, Poppet."

***

Jonah sat on the edge of the bed, Holly lying on her pillow in pajamas. She had remembered, thank goodness, to take her shoes off before climbing in.

"I was thinking of something just now, Poppet. Do you suppose that the song you heard on the radio was Penny's climbing song?"

"Perhaps. Or maybe it was just another song, with the same tune."

Jonah stood up and paced for a bit, watching his daughter from the mirror above her dresser. He tried to remember what it was they had listened to on the radio, attempted to whistle it. "Like that? Was that Holly's tune, Poppet?"

Holly smiled, her eyelids heavy. "Yes, I think that must have been it, Papa. Only - don't call me Poppet, please."

Jonah winced, but Holly hadn't seen it; her eyes were already closed. "Why not?" he asked, slowly enunciating the sounds.

"Well, I'm not really your puppet, am I?" She had turned over, closed her eyes and buried her face in her pillow. "I'm just your Holly, you see."

He walked to the door, hesitated for a moment for a moment. Finally he sighed and stepped out.

"Very well, Holly. Sweet dreams."

Commit message:

Wrap story back into pie making

origin-of-sadness/origin-of-sadness.md, after:

# The Origin of Sadness

"Papa," Holly asked, "why am I sad?"

Jonah's hands went on scrubbing the pan for a moment. Outside the kitchen window, a bluebird hopped from one branch to the other of the mulberry bush he had planted, just a week before Holly was born. From the duet on the radio, the guitar picked out a shaky complaint. The bluebird seemed to turn its head in thoughtful consideration, and then flew off.

"Why, Poppet - is it because of Mama?"

Holly did not looking up from her coloring. Before her, a line drawing of a bunny lay on the kitchen table, a pile of crayons strewn in every direction. Her right hand pinched the tip of a brown crayon, earnestly pressing into the paper so that she could finish coloring the bunny's ear.

"I know Mama isn't here. I've knew that yesterday, and I knew that this morning, and I'll know that tonight. But why am I sad just this moment, Papa? I wasn't sad before."

"Before what?" He had resumed working on the pan, to occupy his hands. Something had burnt in place on the bottom, and wouldn't scrape off even though it had sat soaking throughout lunch.

Holly set down the crayon and carefully considered her drawing. She blew softly on the paper, scattering the crayon shavings, before picking up the forest green to finish the tufts of grass at the bunny's feet. "Before you turned on the radio, I suppose. Why should that make me sad?"

Jonah gave the pan a final rinse, studied his reflection in the silverish metal, as though the answer to his daughter's question might reside there.

"Are you saying that the song made you sad, is that it?" Jonah plucked Holly's plate from off the table, taking care not to drop the fork on her drawing.

Holly regarded him for a moment, then exhaled a little puff of air. "Of course, that is exactly what I'm saying."

"Why then, it's a sad song. And it reminds you that Mama is gone. And that makes you sad." He gave the plate a swipe, set it in the dishwasher, and turned towards her, leaning on the countertap and wiping his hands with a towel. Even before he finished saying it, Jonah knew that this answer would not satisfy her.

"Papa, what a perfectly silly thing to say." Holly brushed her hand against the paper, in the process rubbing the few remaining bits of waxy crayon into smudges on the drawing, and then fixed her drawing to the refrigerator. "It's a sad song, of course it makes me sad. But why is it a sad song? It's just some instruments on the radio, a few sounds. How does that have anything to do with Mama? No one on the radio knows that she's gone, or even who she is. Why should that make me sad?"

***

The ground was still a little damp from rain earlier in the week; the planting project would go very quickly. Jonah dug another hole, prepared a little bed of soil.

"I'm ready for another seed, Poppet."

Holly dug around in the little foil pouch, brightly painted with a pair of carrots, carefully pinched a tiny seed between thumb and forefinger, and dropped them into her father's waiting hand.

"Have you figured it out yet, Papa?"

He turned the question over in his head as he placed the seed into the little depression in the soil, heaped a little bit more dirt onto the top, and patted the completed mound flat. Finally he remembered the question she had asked just after lunch.

"Have I figured out why that song made you sad? No, I'm afraid I haven't."

"Well - maybe we should turn it into a story. Like Mama says."

That was Sylvia's favorite game with Holly, to make up silly stories all day long, whether it was about someone feeding ducks at the park or the nice man at the post office.

"Well then, I'll do my best." Jonah set his spade down on the ground, and sat back on his haunches. How did every good story begin? "Once upon a time, there was a good, wise king, who ruled over a vast kingdom..."

"Oh, Papa, you're telling it wrong!" Holly stretched her feet upwards, standing on her toes for a moment, and it was only then that Jonah realized she had worn her new shoes for the afternoon's chores.

Holly took a breath and then sat down on the ground. "The story starts like this: 'Once upon a time, there was a little girl named... Penny. Penny loved to sing, all day and all night. She sang at the playground, she sang in the bath, she even sang at school! She sang while she was doing her homework, or playing with her friends, she sang while she was riding her bike.'"

"Sounds like Penny must have had a real talent." Jonah stole a surreptitious glance at her sneakers, wondering how difficult it would be to wipe off the smudge of dirt on the side of the left shoe. Miraculously, that seemed to be the only stain on the new pair, so far.

"Oh yes. Penny was the best singer in her whole school, in the whole town even."

"Well, that is a lovely story. Did Penny invent the very first sad song, is that it?" Jonah gathered all the little rocks they had unearthed from the garden into a little pile, and left it by the side of the garden.

"Well, there's more to the story, of course. We haven't even reached the middle yet!" Holly's arms extended behind her, fists pressing into the ground for support. She had crushed the packet of seeds into a ball.

"Very well, then, Poppet. Let's pick up the gardening things, and continue the story after we put them away. Ok?"

***

At the edge of the yard stood a line of oak trees, stout old things that had been there since they had bought the house, and probably many years before that. Any day now, the leaves would turn a lazy shade of yellow. But already a few strays were starting to flutter off the branches, one or two or three at a time.

Raking in the shade felt good after sweating under the pounding sun in the garden. Even at this stage, before the leaves had started to fall in earnest, there were already plenty on the ground. Jonah gathered them together into a pile while Holly grabbed fists full of leaves, twigs and acorns, and stuffed them into a large brown paper bag. Jonah had forgotten to remind her to change into a shabbier pair of shoes for the yard work, and so the new ones were soon marked up with little grass stains. While she worked she hummed a little.

"Are you singing one of Penny's songs, Poppet?"

Penny buried her hands in the vast pile of leaves, crunching them through her fingers. "I suppose so, Papa. I think this was one of her songs. Only she must have known the words."

"You mean the lyrics? I didn't even realize that there were any. I thought it was just a simple tune." Jonah paused for a minute and leaned against the rake, dabbing at his forehead with the back of his hat.

Holly dropped the leaves she had gathered into the bag, wiping her hands against her jeans and frowning. "Well, maybe you and I don't know the words, but I'm sure that Penny would have. She knew the words to every song."

"Wow. That's a lot of songs!"

"Many, many songs. More than you could count, Papa. She knew all the words because she had a song for every possible thing she wanted to do: one for reading a book, another for eating dinner, a third one for playing with her dog, and so on. So, she must have known lots and lots of songs."

"When you explain it like that, it makes perfect sense. So was this her song for picking up leaves?"

Holly picked up a single dried leaf, twirled it by the stem. "Hmm. Yes, it must have been! But now I wonder why it is that we no longer know the words."

"Maybe Penny forgot them." Jonah had gone back to raking, pulling together one last pile from the leaves on the far side of the yard.

Holly wandered up to one of the oaks at the side of the yard, touched her fingertips to its cobbled bark. She looked down to the roots, and then up to the highest branches.

"I think there was another song that she forgot, first. You see, one day while Penny was climbing a tree, she found that she couldn't remember the words to the song she was singing."

"Oh dear. Couldn't she just choose another one?"

"What a strange idea. How would Penny be able to climb a tree while singing a song that was meant for something else, like chopping vegetables?"

"I hadn't really thought of that, I suppose." Jonah went back to raking, and Holly picked up another little pile of leaves to drop in the bag. "Well then: how did Penny get out of the tree? Was she able to continue climbing, if she couldn't remember the words to the song?"

Holly rubbed her nose with the back of her hand a little, and began collecting leaves from the last little pile. "She couldn't, of course. Penny didn't know how to climb without singing. And she couldn't sing the song if she didn't know the words. Fortunately she hadn't climbed very far, so she simply jumped out of the tree."

"Well, I'm glad she got out of the tree."

"Yes, but Papa - Penny still wanted to climb trees! She just couldn't remember the words. She asked her friends, and her teachers, and her parents, she even asked the dog. But no one could help her."

"So then, what did she do?"

"Well, there was a great and powerful sorceress, who lived in the middle of a vast forest. Penny decided that she should visit the sorceress, to see whether the sorceress had a potion which could help her memory."

"That must have been very brave of Penny."

"Well, yes. But she had her song for walking through the woods. And as she hiked through the forest, Penny sang and sang, which made the journey go quickly. She even stopped every now and then to leave some breadcrumbs on the trail, so that she'd know how to get back home."

"What a good idea. She sounds like quite a clever little girl."

Holly shrugged. She had just about finished putting the last few leaves into the paper bag, and at the bottom of the pile she had found an acorn, a perfectly formed little nut, and had decided to try to prise off the cap with her fingernail.

Jonah waited another moment, but his daughter appeared lost in thought.

"Poppet?"

"Yes, Papa?"

"What happened when Penny found the sorceress?"

"Oh, yes. Of course."

***

By the time Penny found the sorceress's house, it was alrighty quite cold and dark. The owls had started hooting and the frogs had started croaking. Creatures snuffled underfoot, in and out of the bushes. Penny was relieved to find the sorceress's house cheerfully awake, a fire still blazing through the window.

As cold and as dark as it was, Penny wasted no time in asking the sorceress for help with her song. But the sorceress replied:

"Ah no, my dear, it is too late tonight - rest up, and we will see about that tomorrow."

Penny slept soundly that night, weary from her long journey. When she awoke the house smelled of something sweet and spicy, light but a little bit tart. In the kitchen, the sorceress had just pulled a loaf of gingerbread out of the oven.

"Marvelous, you've awoken just in time. Now let us see about your song." And with that she offered Penny a slice of the gingerbread. It was fluffy and filling at once, and the warm blend of spices was fragrant and familiar. Penny closed her eyes as she chewed, detecting, as she did so, the slightest note of something peppery.

It was just as she opened her eyes, and was about to ask about the song, that she saw the old sorceress hang her head. Wiping her hands on her apron, the woman turned away to tidy the kitchen. And Penny understood, somehow, that she had failed in some vital but unspecified task.

The next day was the same, and the next after that, and so on for quite some time: Penny awoke each morning to the smell of gingerbread, ate a slice, but could not remember the words to her song. The peppery note in the sorceress's gingerbread never went away - some days it was stronger, and some days weaker, but always it was there, hiding in the center of the slice.

And so it went, until one day Penny awoke earlier than usual, and there was no gingerbread smell in the house. In the kitchen, the girl found the old sorceress preparing the morning's bread. "Auntie" she pleaded, for the two were now good friends, "may I help with the baking?"

The sorceress looked up from her work, as though she had been expecting Penny all morning. "But of course my dear - you may blend the spices." And she nodded her head toward the jars of spices huddled in one corner of the counter. A dove had settled on the ledge of the kitchen window, overseeing the operation from its perch. Carefully Penny measured out the cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, and cardamom, until she found only one jar left. It was a curious little jar, made of black glass, marked with nothing but a piece of tape. The dove tilted its head in curiosity. Penny understood that she must add the contents of that jar - but what was inside? She dared not taste it, though she did not know why.

When she was done, the gingerbread tasted especially peppery - but there was another taste, beneath the pepper one, that Penny could not quite describe. It was something earthy, and rough - it reminded Penny of the bark of a tree. "Yes, my pet, a wonderful job with the spices today," the sorceress replied, as they tidied the kitchen that day. "It won't be long now."

From that day on Penny continued to blend the spices, and each day the earthy taste in the gingerbread grew stronger, more present, more alive. In all this time, Penny still had not remembered the words to her song, and the sorceress had given her no hints, or tricks, or spells, or potions, to remember. Instead, the sorceress repeated the same thing, day after day: "It won't be long now."

One day, when Penny awoke, the sorceress was gone.

***

They had finished rolling out the dough and Holly still had not mentioned the ending to her story. Jonah had done his best to be patient, letting her think about it while they mashed up the berries, and waited for them to boil, and added sugar and syrup so that it would thicken.

With the table still covered in flour, he finally gave in to his curiosity. "And so, Poppet? What happened to Penny? Did she ever remember the lyrics to her song?"

"Oh, no, Papa," Holly responded, chewing her lip as she carefully pushed the rolling pin over the dough one more time. "No, the words were gone forever."

"And the sorceress? Where did she go, and why didn't she help Penny?"

"But Papa, don't you see? Penny had become the sorceress. She was the one making the gingerbread. A new kind of gingerbread." Holly stuck her finger in to the bowl of mulberry pie filling, and helped herself to a generous, sticky taste. "That was how the sorceress helped Penny."

"Hmmm." Jonah picked up the dough that Holly had rolled out, and carefully set it in the pie tin. He grabbed two spoons, handing one to Holly, and they both began spooning the filling into the pie.

***

The pie was nearly done. Jonah still sat at the kitchen table, staring out the window. Beside him, Holly clutched a glass of milk, swinging her feet back and forth.

"It's a sad thing when you know the song, but you can't do the thing the song is telling you to do. Isn't it, Poppet?"

"Very, very sad, Papa."

"Even though Penny never climbed another tree - do you suppose she did other things?"

Penny placed her chin in her hand, studying the afternoon sun reflected on the table top as though it might help her explain something very simple. "Papa, Penny did many, many other things. She knew all of those songs, remember? And she must have learned more, as she grew older."

Jonah smiled thinly, wrapped his knuckles on the table once. "Did I ever tell you about the first dance at our wedding?"

Holly shook her head mid-sip, dribbling a bit of milk down her chin.

"It was a beautiful old French love song, with trumpets and violins and probably some cymbals. It went a little like this: ba-dum, ba-dum, ya da da-da..." Jonah wiggled his fingers a bit in the air, his hands flying about like butterflies.

"Was Mama a good dancer?"

"Oh you wouldn't believe it, she was the best dancer. Mama could dance any song she chose. Even if she'd never heard it before, she'd start by tapping her feet and nodding her head. Before you knew it she had taken over the dance floor."

"And you never danced again, after the wedding?" Holly's eyes were wide, the glass of milk held steady by her hands in her lap.

"Well, yes we did, but it was never the same, was it? After all, how many weddings did Mama and I have?" Jonah tapped an index finger on his upper lip, as though in serious thought.

"Only one, silly!" Holly giggled and commenced kicking her feet under the table.

"Ah that's right, we only had one wedding. And only one first dance at the wedding. But after that we had something even better than a wedding, didn't we?"

The oven timer went off, an insistent beep. "Dessert?" Holly asked.

Jonah caught a swinging foot under the table, and gave a little squeeze. "Something much, much better than that, Poppet."

***

Jonah sat on the edge of the bed, Holly lying on her pillow in pajamas. She had remembered, thank goodness, to take her shoes off before climbing in.

"I was thinking of something just now, Poppet. Do you suppose that the song you heard on the radio was Penny's climbing song?"

"Perhaps. Or maybe it was just another song, with the same tune."

Jonah stood up and paced for a bit, watching his daughter from the mirror above her dresser. He tried to remember what it was they had listened to on the radio, attempted to whistle it. "Like that? Was that Holly's tune, Poppet?"

Holly smiled, her eyelids heavy. "Yes, I think that must have been it, Papa. Only - don't call me Poppet, please."

Jonah winced, but Holly hadn't seen it; her eyes were already closed. "Why not?" he asked, slowly enunciating the sounds.

"Well, I'm not really your puppet, am I?" She had turned over, closed her eyes and buried her face in her pillow. "I'm just your Holly, you see."

He walked to the door, hesitated for a moment for a moment. Finally he sighed and stepped out.

"Very well, Holly. Sweet dreams."
